---
title: week-13
author: Aaditya Singh
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Aaditya Singh <singh.aaditya889@gmail.com>
-->
---
# Meeting 24
*(02 August, 2024)*

## Attendees:
**Mentors**:
  - [Gaurav Mishra](https://github.com/GMishx)
  + [Kaushlendra Pratap](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)

**Contributor:**
  + [Aaditya Singh](https://github.com/Aaditya-Singh78)

## Discussion:

**Contributor:**
  + [Aaditya Singh](https://github.com/Aaditya-Singh78): Worked on updating the directory structure from a single module to multiple modules, creating a workspace system for better management and following the Unix-based philosophy of doing one thing at a time. This requires Go > 1.18.0.

```
  Overwatch
    |-------/app
      |--------/balancer
      |--------/syncer
      |--------/app.go
      |--------go.sum
      |--------go.mod
    |-------/connector
      |-------/distributor
      |-------/notify 
      |-------connect.go
      |-------go.sum
      |-------mod.go
    |-------/storage
      |-------/config
      |-------/data
      |-------storage.go
      |-------go.sum
      |-------mod.go
    |-------main.go
    |-------go.work
    |-------go.work.sum

```

Additionally, refactored code to introduce `gorm query` functionality and utilized the Viper package for reading `.conf` files for username and password. Implemented encryption and decryption for securing passwords using the Advanced Encryption Standard Algorithm. Need some time to refactor other linked files.

Additionally, for the load balancer component, I aimed to examine the package size through APIs or databases to better analyze and prioritize user-specified jobs for processing.

**Mentors:**
+[Gaurav Mishra](https://github.com/GMishx): Inquired about the optimal operation mode for a scheduler, whether it should run as a foreground, background, or backend service. Currently, the daemon of `fossology` runs as a background service that links to the foreground service.

Additionally, discussed whether the unpack agent should be kept separate from other agents or if it can be extracted using the pfile ID.

