---
sidebar_position: 10
title: Week 10
---

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Shaheem Azmal M MD <shaheem.azmal@gmail.com@gmail.com>
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Siemens AG
-->

Welcome to meeting minutes page for GSoC 2022 at FOSSology 04-08-2022.


## Attendees:

  - [Katharina Ettinger](https://github.com)
  - [Gaurav Mishra](https://github.com/GMishx)
  - [Kaushlendra Pratap](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)
  - [Shaheem Azmal M MD](https://github.com/shaheemazmalmmd)
  - [Ayush Bhardwaj](https://github.com/hastagAB)
  - [Shruti Agarwal](https://github.com/Shruti3004)
  - [Sushant Kumar](https://github.com/its-sushant)
  - [Rohit Pandey](https://github.com/rohitpandey49)
  - [Feng Wenhan]( https://github.com/fwhdzh)
  - [Soham Banerjee](https://github.com/soham4abc)
  - [Samuel Dushimimana](https://github.com/dushimsam)
  - [Krishna Mahato](https://github.com/krishna9304)

## General

  - Discussion/KT on database needs to be done by [Shaheem Azmal M MD](https://github.com/shaheemazmalmmd). which is planned on next week.

## Updates from students

- [Sushant Kumar](https://github.com/its-sushant)

  - Working on remaining comments my mentors and training a doc to vec modal. as siggested by mentors.

- [Feng Wenhan](https://github.com/fwhdzh)

  - Last week i have modified the text content. was facing some issue with debug and was not getting anything in UI clarified with mentors.

- [Rohit Pandey](https://github.com/rohitpandey49)

  - Worked on documentation part and finished. currently working in coping license results from license folder to files. facing some issues with database clarified with mentors.

- [Krishna Mahato](https://github.com/krishna9304)

  - Finished my exams and worked on token API. facing some cors issue on my browser. clarified my it with mentors.

- [Soham Banerjee](https://github.com/soham4abc)

  - Since last week im working in getting clearing status of file tree view. currently struck on writing a query. clarified my quesions with mentors.

- [Samuel Dushimimana](https://github.com/dushimsam)

  - I was not able to contribute much last week as this the last week of my college. But i have added a confirmation message if someone tries to delete a group.
  
