---
sidebar_position: 7
title: Week 7
---

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Shaheem Azmal M MD <shaheem.azmal@gmail.com@gmail.com>
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Siemens AG
-->

Welcome to meeting minutes page for GSoC 2022 at FOSSology 14-07-2022.


## Attendees:

  - [Gaurav Mishra](https://github.com/GMishx)
  - [Kaushlendra Pratap](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)
  - [Shaheem Azmal M MD](https://github.com/shaheemazmalmmd)
  - [Ayush Bhardwaj](https://github.com/hastagAB)
  - [Shruti Agarwal](https://github.com/Shruti3004)
  - [Vasudev Maduri](https://github.com/vasudevmaduri)
  - [Sushant Kumar](https://github.com/its-sushant)
  - [Rohit Pandey](https://github.com/rohitpandey49)
  - [Feng Wenhan]( https://github.com/fwhdzh)
  - [Soham Banerjee](https://github.com/soham4abc)
  - [Samuel Dushimimana](https://github.com/dushimsam)
  - [Thanvi Lahari Pendyala](https://github.com/Pendyala-thanvi)


## General

  - We are currently heading towards the first results phase and we see that the most of the students are lagging on what they have estimated.  As mentors and admins, We also see that what you have promised and what you delivered. Please dedicate some more time so that you can finish what is lagging.

## Updates from students

- [Sushant Kumar](https://github.com/its-sushant)

  - Made changes on the pull request of Minerva project. Created a agent with PM25 Transformer which gave accuracy of 67%. PM25 has a apache license for which we have to search for a alternative.

- [Feng Wenhan](https://github.com/fwhdzh)

  - Demo about the changes on concept of project. Now will work on unlink content page and move or copy page. And make the current pages dynamic..

- [Rohit Pandey](https://github.com/rohitpandey49)

  - Will add Ignore syntax for the test data pages and clarified few questions with mentors. Also working on regular expression of the second part.

- [Thanvi Lahari Pendyala](https://github.com/Pendyala-thanvi)

  - Demo on current implementation.  I tried to get license as we discussed in the yesterday's meet. Once I finish the license and then I can get the part and attributions, if these 3 are done, the entire patch will be ready to send back to the data. I also created the API request.

- [Ayush Kumar](https://github.com/Ayush7614)

  - Absent

- [Krishna Mahato](https://github.com/krishna9304)

  - Started working on REST API. After fixing the SSH issue on my side. Also contributed a PR for adding a User Via Rest. As suggested by Gaurav need to simplify/refactor the add user function. Currently working on edit User.

- [Soham Banerjee](https://github.com/soham4abc)

  - Last week I have worked on jobs endpoint also changes as requested by mentors. Currently the pull request is under review. Also the PR which fixes the columns in showjobs page.

- [Samuel Dushimimana](https://github.com/dushimsam)

  - Backend contributions:
    - Testing all the APIs i've been working on.
    - Listing deletable groups API: https://github.com/fossology/fossology/pull/2247
    - Getting group members with respective permissions API: https://github.com/fossology/fossology/pull/2251
    - Delete Group API: https://github.com/fossology/fossology/pull/2244
    - It was my first time to work on tests in Slim flamework , so they are not passing as expected.
    - by the moment. But i am going to try improving them this week.
    - Released a new REST API to change the user permission in the particular group: https://github.com/fossology/fossology/pull/2259
  - Frontend Contributions:
    - Created and integrated DELETE GROUP PAGE. https://github.com/fossology/FOSSologyUI/pull/241

  
