---
sidebar_position: 4
title: Week 1
---

<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 Shaheem Azmal M MD <shaheem.azmal@gmail.com@gmail.com>
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 Siemens AG
-->

Welcome to meeting minutes page for GSoC 2023 at FOSSology 01-06-2023.


## Attendees:

  - [Katharina Ettinger](mailto:katharina.ettinger@siemens.com)
  - [Shaheem Azmal M MD](https://github.com/shaheemazmalmmd)
  - [Gaurav Mishra](https://github.com/GMishx)
  - [Anupam Ghosh](https://github.com/ag4ums)
  - [Kaushlendra Pratap](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)
  - [Ayush Bhardwaj](https://github.com/hastagAB)
  - [Avinal Kumar](https://github.com/avinal)
  - [Sushant Kumar](https://github.com/its-sushant)
  - [Kavya Shukla](https://github.com/k-avy)
  - [Samuel Dushimimana](https://github.com/dushimsam)


## General

  - [Kaushlendra Pratap](https://github.com/Kaushl2208): Had few calls last week with abdel. as he has exams we have decided not to push much now but had a good discussion on how to improve the copyright clutter and deactivation. hope we will provide better solution this year.

  - [Avinal Kumar](https://github.com/avinal): Better to give permissions or make licenseasaservice repo public. as other mentors and contributors can also review and provide feedback on codebase.

  - [Gaurav Mishra](https://github.com/GMishx): Observed that contributors have not updated the GSOC repository with the latest updates.

  - [Shaheem Azmal M MD](https://github.com/shaheemazmalmmd): As the discussion happened multiple times contributors shall update the GSOC wiki and come to thursday calls.

## Updates from contributors

- [Sushant Kumar](https://github.com/its-sushant)

  - I was not able to join the last call as i had exams. this week i was not able to do much but mentors had asked me to look into SPDX codebase im doing that now
  - will start working on CycloneDX soon. first i will integrate cyclonedx php library internally.

- [Abdelrahman jamal](https://github.com/Hero2323)

  - Absent(Have exams till 14th june).

- [Kavya Shukla](https://github.com/k-avy)

  - Last week i was working on authentication and reading about github actions.
  - Im not able to fork/push to new repository i dont have access i guess.
  - [Gaurav Mishra](https://github.com/GMishx): Create a issue with tasks you need to work on we will speak with anupam to provide ytou with access
  - Would like to show a demo on project structure. basic structure is ready.
  - anupam to make the repository public.

- [Soham Banerjee](https://github.com/soham4abc)

  - Absent(Have exams till 14th june).

- [Samuel Dushimimana](https://github.com/dushimsam)

  - Last week i was working on licenses part. Worked on API to get file contents based on uploadid and itemid, also worked on
  - suggetions by mentors on the same. the second thing i was working on is ablity to provide pagination wjile getting the licenses.

  - Demo on getting file contents.
