---
title: Community bonding
author: Abdelrahman Jamal
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 Abdelrahman Jamal <abdelrahmanjamal5565@gmail.com>
-->

# Meeting 1

*(May,11,2023)*

## Attendees:

* [Gaurav](https://github.com/GMishx)
* [Soham](https://github.com/soham4abc)
* [Avinal](https://github.com/avinal)
* [Samuel](https://github.com/dushimsam)
* [Shaheem](https://github.com/shaheemazmalmmd)
* [Rohit](https://github.com/rohitpandey49)
* [Sahil](https://github.com/sjha2048)
* [Ayush](https://github.com/hastagAB)
* [Sushant](https://github.com/its-sushant)
* [Kavya](https://github.com/k-avy)
* [Abdelrahman](https://github.com/Hero2323)
* [Kaushlendra](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)
* [Anupam](https://github.com/ag4ums)
* Katharina

## Discussion:

- Introductions of all the contributors and mentors.
- The meeting time for the general meeting as well as the project specific meetings were decided.
- My project's weekly meeting time is Wednesday 11:30 UTC (17:00 IST).

# Meeting 2

*(May,18,2023)*

## Attendees:

* [Abdelrahman](https://github.com/Hero2323)
* [Sushant](https://github.com/its-sushant)
* [Kavya](https://github.com/k-avy)
* [Gaurav](https://github.com/GMishx)
* [Soham](https://github.com/soham4abc)
* [Samuel](https://github.com/dushimsam)
* [Avinal](https://github.com/avinal)
* [Anupam](https://github.com/ag4ums)
* [Kaushlendra](https://github.com/Kaushl2208)

## Discussion:

- I asked about extending my project's timeline to the one on the GSoC dashboard. Gaurav asked me to contact him, Shaheem or Anupam on Slack/Email about that.
- Informed everyone about my final exams' schedule and the fact that I will not be able to do much work during that time. Everyone was very understanding.
- I'll contact Kaushlendra by next week to have a meeting about the project.
- **I should contact my mentors regarding the dependencies that my project will use to ensure that there are no license conflicts.**
# Meeting 3

*(May,25,2023)*
## Attendees:

* [Abdelrahman](https://github.com/Hero2323)
* [Kavya](https://github.com/k-avy)
* [Gaurav](https://github.com/GMishx)
* [Soham](https://github.com/soham4abc)
* [Samuel](https://github.com/dushimsam)
* [Avinal](https://github.com/avinal)
* [Anupam](https://github.com/ag4ums)
* [Ayush](https://github.com/hastagAB)
* [Shaheem](https://github.com/shaheemazmalmmd)

## Discussion:
- As I was studying for exams I wasn't able to do much in the week preceding the meeting.
- Informed everyone that I'll be meeting with my mentors tomorrow to discuss my project in more detail.
- **Gaurav suggesting watching the [FOSSology workflow YouTube video](https://youtu.be/TZqU5ZALI7U) to give us a better idea about how the tool works.**